---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "anaml_feature_template Resource - terraform-provider-anaml"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Feature Templates
  Feature Templates allow for faster creation and update of set of similar Features.
  Feature Templates allow a user to quickly pre-fill a Feature creation form with
  useful information. Changes made to a Feature Template will propagate
  to any Feature created using the Feature Template.
  However, if a particular field has been modified from the Feature Template's default,
  then that field will not be changed when the Feature Template is updated.
---

# anaml_feature_template (Resource)

# Feature Templates

Feature Templates allow for faster creation and update of set of similar Features.

Feature Templates allow a user to quickly pre-fill a Feature creation form with
useful information. Changes made to a Feature Template will propagate
to any Feature created using the Feature Template.

However, if a particular field has been modified from the Feature Template's default,
then that field will not be changed when the Feature Template is updated.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String)
- **select** (String) An SQL expression for the column to aggregate

### Optional

- **aggregation** (String)
- **attribute** (Block Set) Attributes (key value pairs) to attach to the object (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--attribute))
- **days** (Number) An event window
- **description** (String)
- **entity** (String)
- **entity_restrictions** (List of String) List of entity Id's that the feature is restricted to.
- **filter** (String) An SQL column expression to filter with
- **hours** (Number) An event window
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **labels** (Set of String) Labels to attach to the object
- **months** (Number) The event window description for the number of months to aggregate over.
- **over** (List of String) A list of Features this row feature depends on
- **post_aggregation** (String) An SQL expression to apply to the result of the feature aggregation.
- **rows** (Number) An event window
- **table** (String) A reference to a Table ID the feature is derived from

<a id="nestedblock--attribute"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attribute`

Required:

- **key** (String)

Optional:

- **value** (String)


