---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "anaml_feature Resource - terraform-provider-anaml"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Features
  A Feature is a time specific observation of the input data. Features define how data
  is transformed into information that is useful for analytics or machine learning. At
  a more concrete level, a Feature defines how data from tables is selected or aggregated
  into a useful output. Each Feature selects data from a single source table but can use
  one or more columns from that table. Each Feature is generated for a single entity.
  There are two types of Features:
  - Event Features
  - Row Features
---

# anaml_feature (Resource)

# Features

A Feature is a time specific observation of the input data. Features define how data
is transformed into information that is useful for analytics or machine learning. At
a more concrete level, a Feature defines how data from tables is selected or aggregated
into a useful output. Each Feature selects data from a single source table but can use
one or more columns from that table. Each Feature is generated for a single entity.

There are two types of Features:
- Event Features
- Row Features



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String)
- **select** (String) An SQL expression for the column to aggregate.

### Optional

- **aggregation** (String) The aggregation to perform.
- **attribute** (Block Set) Attributes (key value pairs) to attach to the object (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--attribute))
- **days** (Number) The event window description for the number of days to aggregate over.
- **description** (String)
- **entity** (String) The Entity to map a row feature over.
- **entity_restrictions** (List of String) List of entity Id's that the feature is restricted to.
- **filter** (String) An SQL column expression to filter with.
- **hours** (Number) The event window description for the number of days to aggregate over.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **labels** (Set of String) Labels to attach to the object
- **months** (Number) The event window description for the number of months to aggregate over.
- **over** (List of String) A list of Features this row feature depends on
- **post_aggregation** (String) An SQL expression to apply to the result of the feature aggregation.
- **rows** (Number) The event window description for the number of rows (events) to aggregate over.
- **table** (String) A reference to a Table ID the feature is derived from.
- **template** (String) The feature template this feature is derived from.

<a id="nestedblock--attribute"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attribute`

Required:

- **key** (String)

Optional:

- **value** (String)


